<style>body {width: 75%} .markdown-body blockquote {margin-bottom: 3px} .markdown-body li>p {margin-top: 3px; margin-bottom: 3px;}</style>

# Caesar

[TOC]

## Very well respected
- *Act __1__, Scene __2__*
	- Lines 1-3, 13-15:

		> Peace, ho! Caesar speaks!
		> _[Music ceases]_

		> _Caesar_: Hark, who calls?
		> _Casca_: Bid every noise be still; peace, yet again!
		> _[Music ceases]_

		- Those around him seem completely subservient to him
		- They act to suit Caesar's every situation, silence themselves to let Caesar speak

	- Line 10
		
		> When Caesar says, "Do this", it is performed.

		- His subordinates are extremely loyal to him, will act out every command
		- Antony doesn't say this in sarcasm or in bitterness, but in eagerness; Caesar not only has the loyalty of him, but his respect

## Insensitive, not intimate with his wife
- *Act __1__, Scene __2__*
	- Line 1

		> Calphurnia.
		>> _Later on in the scene_
		>> Antonius.

		- He addresses his wife in the same authoritative, curt manner as he would his subordinates
		- Shows an unintimate relationship

	- lines 6-8

		> Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
		> To touch Calphurnia; for our elders say
		> The barren, touched in this holy chase,
		> Shake off their sterile curse

		- He strongly implies in public that Calphurnia is infertile

## Very superstitious
- *Act __1__, Scene __2__*
	- lines 6-8:

		> Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
		> To touch Calphurnia; for **our elders say**
		> The barren, touched in this holy chase,
		> Shake off their sterile curse

		- He believes in this, to the point where he specially asks Antony to perform such a ritual

	- line 11:

		> Set on, and **leave no ceromony out**

		- Caesar appears to be very particular about ceromonies

## Arrogance
- *Act __1__, Scene __2__*
	- Line 18

		> I hear a tongue shriller than all the music / Cry "Caesar!"
		> Speak; Caesar is turned to hear

		- He speaks of himself in the third person
		- Makes him appear arrogant

	- Line 24

		> He is a dreamer; let us leave him. Pass.

		- Soothsayer comes all the way through the crowd, Caesar carelessly dismisses him
		- Soothsayer repeats his message *thrice*, an especially ominous message telling him to beware a certain date
		- Caesar throws aside his superstitious beliefs to put up his facade of bravado, showing arrogance